date: 2023-maerz-5

slide notes for DPG

outline what alignment is for the viewer
-> show pictures of ideal detector vs possible real detector with rotations and movements
talk about survey in 1 or 2 slides

1. using tracking script to study Q2 behaviour
2. additional to the TrackSelector added more stuff to FTTrackSelector to study quarters individually
3. in doing so, it became clear, hat Q0 is problematic and not Q2
-> plot for individual layers for hits on tracks (nodeX vs nodeY)
4. trackslopes in x (tx) show gaussian as per usual but in Q0 we see a small bump in the slopes
5. general performance improvement from v1 to v2 seen in nodeX (hits on tracks in x)
--> way better in A side, a little worse on C side
6. also seen when plotting chi2 versus phi
-> we want a flat sitribution overall: A side good, C side lower for small angles
7. 25.01. RTA nice presentation:
7.1: tx < -0.09 bump
C side quarters way better performing
8. 11 min hits instead of 9: not much different but less events overall
9. shapes are similar: cut only useful if we need more events
10. T2X2 in globalModuleIndex has VERY few hits
11. tx vs nodeX: how are are the track slopes for these hits on tracks?
12. 08.02.: horrendous T2X2: onto that
13. seeding tracks in simulation close to identical to from v2 -> alignment tracks problematic
14. err residual: 3 peak feature in seeding and sim, 2 peaks in alignment tracks
15. 15.02.: mean residual for each layer for performance evaluation -> weighted with nHits per layer vs
total hits per layer to reduce impact from layers with fewer/more hits
16. individual residuals per layer
17. plan on modifying xmls bc we are quite sure alignment or survey are the issue for T2X2
18. photogrammetry: sun heating on T2X1 and T2U
------------------------------------------
lhcb week news:

biljana send me a logbook entry with plots
these are for scifi alignment v3 -> v5, run 265581
--> big improvements seen in phi distribution and track quality 
which is very good!

more notes from biljana:

I think you should send the slides to all these people whose work you are presenting.
Also it's good if you write the persons name on each slide who worked on each of the separate topic and also link their slides if they presented to the working group  

Slide 1: 
SciFi alignment + calibration team  -> you can just say on behalf of the SciFi alignment 
and reconstruction team, you have the names of all people later in the slides

Slide 3: if you want to have like a table of contents on the right side you should add the checks 
with VELO open and the dd4hep. 
Also on this slide the font size left and right is not uniform, maybe you can fix this.
Slide 4: 
Monitoring, alignment and material scan are consistent  -> The VELO drift has been confirmed 
with  monitoring, alignment and material scan
Slide 5:
GoodLongTracks  -> you can put the track selection if you wish otherwise GoodLongTracks 
doesn't mean anything to the rest of the audience
the mass is fine -> the mean value of the mass is consistent. I would remove the word slightly 
for the resolution, if you know how much it is just add the number
Slide 6:
loose track matching/params in first iterations yield performance boost -> 
Did we really have loose tracking in the final versions, confirm this with Sophie? 
Slide 10 and 11:
Please link the presentation from Lukas in WP4
Slide 11: Did Lukas have this plot for MC? If yes you can put it as a reference 
-> My comment: have not found one so no
Slide 12: I can send you my improved script that accounts for the sign and everything 
correct in case you want to redo the plot
Me: i alsready corrected the bug with 1e-5 -> 1e+00 and mislabelling
- most translations are within 1 mm which is expected 
-> this is expected from the survey measurements 
Slide 17: SciFi alignment in run control -> SciFi online alignment 
Then on the right side the first bullet point should be:  
SciFi alignment was added in the alignment  run control
SciFi job was tested for 10000 events  -> remove this not needed here 
enough to run alignment -> enough to test the online alignment 
You can add the dd4hep MR here in this slide as a last point since all the jobs in the run control 
use the developments from there 
You need another slide after this with title: 
ScFi alignment with 2023 data and you can put some of my plots. You need to stress that 
we are not with v3 anymore when running online. 
See https://lblogbook.cern.ch/Alignment+and+calibration/42 and also my slides. 
In case you want I can draft you a slide later tonight or over the weekend. 
Slide 18: you need to add an important point in the alignment outlook:
estimate SciFi alignment accuracy needed to trigger automatic update of constant
add automatic alignment monitoring
